# Real_Noisy_Clean_Color_IMAGES
This is a publicly available database that contains real noisy and clean color images.

This database consists of more than 180 real noisy and clean images using different camera lens, many of them ourdoor natural scenes, since the clean images are generated by averaging over 100 noisy images for each scene, they are not strictly aligned with noisy images due to the variation of background (light, wind, cloud and moving people). To mimic real-world cases, we use 'auto-mode' for mobile phones, while parameter settings (ISO, aperture, shutter speed) of digital SLR cameras are manually adjusted to produce best possible visual effects. In other words, we do not intentionally produce noisy images.

The download link is available at https://pan.baidu.com/s/1yejcceQ9tNVjbAWagpzDxw, to get the password, please contact kong.zm@mail.scut.edu.cn. Also to download the resources, you might need to first install Baidu Netdisk (available at https://pan.baidu.com/download).

Since the database is large, a cropped version containing about 200 images is also available at https://pan.baidu.com/s/1fDBWyxyfG27dwlpRPqhc5Q, the cropped images are carefully chosen so that there do not exist clear misalignment. Also, the cropped images are divided into two separate parts: indoor scenes and outdoor scenes. We think that the outdoor scenes may better reflect the real needs, because the lighting condition can not be manually controlled.

The database will be updated by including more camera lens and daily scenes. We notice that many advanced devices are recently equipped with 'Night Sight' mode, more images under low-light conditions will also be included.

If you find this resource useful, please kindly include the link in your paper.

For more information, please refer to our paper 'A Brief Review of Real-World Color Image Denoising', available at https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.03298.pdf, and also 'A Comprehensive Comparison of Multi-Dimensional Image Denoising Methods', available at https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.03462.

For more questions, please contact me via kong.zm@mail.scut.edu.cn.


******************************** Update 1.0 ***************************************
Images using new camera brands (Canon 100D and Sony A6500) are uploaded 7/18/2018 
Thank you Zhuoyun Zheng and Ayi for sharing your cameras.

******************************** Update 2.0 ***************************************
Photos taken by OPPO R11s are uploaded 1/24/2019. 
Thank you Haoxue Yang for sharing your camera.

******************************** Update 3.0 ***************************************
Photos taken by XIAOMI8 (DXOMARK 103) are uploaded 2/5/2019. Happy Chinese New Year

******************************** Update 4.0 ***************************************
The dataset is uploaded to googledrive. Feel free to contact me for share link

******************************** Update 5.0 ***************************************
Photos taken by Fujifilm X100T are uploaded 6/28/2020. Keep healthy and stay at home.

******************************** Update 6.0 ***************************************
Photos taken by NIKON D5300 are uploaded 11/08/2020. Keep healthy and stay at home.
Thank you Shusen Jing for sharing your camera.

******************************** Update 7.0 ***************************************
Photos taken by HUAWEI Mate40Pro are uploaded 04/08/2022. The image quality is amazing.

******************************** Update 8.0 ***************************************
Photos taken by IPHONE13 are uploaded 05/08/2022. Lets go Warriors!

